*                                                     @aws-solutions/sb-ma-foundation
common/config/rush/browser-approved-packages.json
common/config/rush/nonbrowser-approved-packages.json
*/**/cache/config.json
.gitallowed
.gitattributes
.gitignore
common/changes/
rush.json                                             @aws-solutions/sb-solution-spark-developers
common/config/rush/pnpm-lock.yaml                     @aws-solutions/sb-solution-spark-developers
.viperlightignore                                     @aws-solutions/sb-solution-spark-developers
solutions/swb-ui                                      @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/swb-ui                            @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
solutions/swb-reference                               @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/swb-reference                     @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
solutions/swb-app                                     @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/swb-app                           @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
workbench-core/base                                   @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/workbench-core-base               @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
workbench-core/environments                           @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/workbench-core-environments       @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
workbench-core/environments-ui                        @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/workbench-core-environments-ui    @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
workbench-core/accounts                               @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
workbench-core/accounts-ui                            @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/workbench-core-accounts-ui        @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
workbench-core/datasets-ui                            @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb
common/changes/@aws/workbench-core-datasets-ui        @aws-solutions/sb-ma-swb